Welcome to the Zenith of Fallen Empires 4.0 Alpha Build 1

Here you will find the building blocks of the next iteration of ZoFE, and from here you can test out the various fundamental elements that differ from 3.0. Firstly, graphical culture has been ported over in its entirely, without changes to code. Do not be alarmed by the number of fallen city sets and rooms. They will eventually be moved to the Sandbox Override Submod. It is assumed that people who want FE ship set and city starts are sandbox players.

Which leads into the first major feature of 4.0, a ZoFE menu on Game Start. It will be a little prelude to what the mod is about and should be atmospheric in introducing the galaxy and its history. The first option allows you to open the menu while the second will use the settings generated based on what difficulty/mods you are using. People who use the Sandbox submod will be assumed to play as Sandbox while people who play without will play vanilla.

Two ¡¥modes¡¦ of ZoFE are introduced: The Vanilla Mode does not change country type on ascension and instead will be given a country flag, while Sandbox mode changes country type and will behave like 3.0. Vanilla mode is set on default as it is the mode that requires testing (We already know how sandbox works from 3.0). You will also find various settings in the menu that customize the AP, or fleet power requirements, and difficulty modifiers. Menu will be locked once you finish selecting and settings cannot be changed*

The Vanilla Mode ¡¥Ascended Empire¡¦ will be referred to as simply an Ascendancy, due to the Galactic Ascendancy government type, while an ¡¥Ascended Empire¡¦ will refer to the country type change. Texts in the game should reflect this as much as possible. Events should trigger when other AI or players complete their ascension. Feel free to test in vanilla mode the various configurations of the menu and test the robustness/reliability of the infrastructure.

Next is the Debug Menu, which is spawned with console command zofe_debug.1 It should contain useful events and situations to trigger. Please use Birth of a Galactic Ascendancy should you wish to ascend and not trigger the situation itself directly, as doing so will make you miss the ¡¥ascending_empire¡¦ country flag. Debug Menu can also unlock the main menu again with a button, but whether changing the settings will have any effect is unknown. Definitely not the difficulty modifiers. Feel free to use the debug menu to spawn events that you don¡¦t have the patience to get to.

Fallen Empires now also awake if they take issue with your ascension. Spiritualists hate Machines, Materialists hate equivalent Tech, Xenophile hate Genocidals, Xenophobes hate equivalent fleet. If Materialist or Xenophobe take issue with you, and you are F. Spiritualist or F. Xenophile, those FE might come to your aid. If you¡¦re hated on, there is a chance (depending on difficulty), you¡¦ll get a DoW.

How Dark Matter is acquired is different. Dark Matter Possibilities will lead to a trigger to ¡¥spy¡¦ on a Precursor or study it at home, then you get the option to either get it through a situation or pay 50 minor artifacts. Situation will grant you the tech, while artifacts give you only the research option.

Last but not least is the Ascendancy Affairs Office, unlocked by fallen_technologies_5.  In it you can select multiple options to either be nice or be mean to your subjects. Other useful utilities include starbase redesign and gifting fleets. Opinion modifiers are given as consequences.

To summarise, these are the things that needs testing/feedback:

1)	Main Menu ¡V Usability, Polish, Modularity and Function, Whether every option works etc (it should)
2)	Entire Dark Matter Chain, including the situation.
3)	Entire Ascension Situation.
4)	Ascendancy Affairs Office ¡V only usable after getting tech_fallen_technologies.5. Also requires you to have subjects.
5)	Balance and pacing of the ascension process up until ascension.

Things that are NOT in the Alpha Build and no need to report.
1)	Debug Cheats/Special Effects are not ported from 3.0
2)	Ship Components not ported from 3.0
3)	Buildings not ported from 3.0
4)	Origins will appear in the selected menu but do not function.
5)	Utopian Worlds not ported from 3.0
6)	Digsites not ported from 3.0
7)	Return of the Custodians not ported from 3.0
8)	Defines and any overrides that involve country type not ported from 3.0 ¡V that¡¦s why you should play on vanilla mode.
